src/content/blog/grant-schemes-2025-eligibility-bishops-stortford.md, before:

---
title: "Window Grant Schemes 2025: Are You Eligible? [Bishop's Stortford]"
description: "Discover 2025 window and energy efficiency grant schemes for Bishop's Stortford homeowners. Eligibility, amounts, and application tips from Oliver Greene."
publishDate: "2025-06-08"
author: "Oliver Greene"
heroImage: "/images/blog/window-grant-schemes-2025-bishops-stortford.webp"
heroImageAlt: "Illustration of grant money and energy-efficient windows for Bishop's Stortford homes in 2025"
tags: ["window grants", "energy grants", "bishops stortford", "2025 schemes", "funding"]
category: "energy-efficiency"
slug: "grant-schemes-2025-eligibility-bishops-stortford"
featured: false
readingTime: 8
schema:
  type: "BlogPosting"
  category: "window services"
faq:
  - question: "What grants are available for window replacement in 2025?"
    answer: "Key 2025 schemes include the Green Homes Grant successor, Energy Company Obligation (ECO4), Local Authority Delivery (LAD) funding, and VAT relief on energy-saving materials. Each scheme has its own eligibility criteria and funding levels."
  - question: "How much can I get from ECO4 for new windows?"
    answer: "ECO4 funding is means-tested and can cover 30-70% of qualifying window upgrade costs. Low-income households may receive up to £5,000 for A-rated double glazing."
  - question: "Do grant schemes cover triple glazing?"
    answer: "Most schemes focus on minimum A-rated double glazing. Some pilot programmes cover triple glazing for properties in high-noise or exposed areas, but funding is limited."
  - question: "Can landlords apply for window grants in Bishop's Stortford?"
    answer: "Yes, but eligibility differs. ECO4 allows landlords to apply if tenants meet income criteria. Local Authority Delivery schemes may also include rental properties meeting EPC requirements."
---

# Window Grant Schemes 2025: Are You Eligible in Bishop's Stortford?

Replacing inefficient windows is one of the best ways to cut energy bills, but it can be a significant investment. The good news? Several 2025 grant schemes can reduce your costs – if you know where to look.

I'm Oliver Greene. After 38 years in the window industry, I've helped many Bishop's Stortford homeowners secure grants to make energy-efficient upgrades more affordable. This guide explains every **2025 grant scheme** relevant to our area, how much you could get, and step-by-step instructions to apply.

**Quick Links:**
- [ECO4 Scheme](#eco4-energy-company-obligation)
- [Local Authority Delivery (LAD)](#local-authority-delivery-lad)
- [Green Homes Grant Successor](#green-homes-grant-successor)
- [Zero-VAT on Energy-Saving Materials](#vat-relief)

## 1. ECO4 Energy Company Obligation

### What is ECO4?
ECO4 is the latest phase of the government-mandated programme requiring energy suppliers to fund home efficiency improvements for low-income and vulnerable households.

### Eligibility Checklist
- Income under £31,000 or receipt of qualifying benefits
- EPC rating of D, E, F or G
- Owner-occupier or private tenant with landlord permission

### How Much Funding?
- 30-70% of window upgrade cost, up to **£5,000** per property
- Higher grants for rural and off-gas homes

### Application Steps
1. Contact an approved ECO installer (we can recommend trusted local partners)
2. Provide proof of benefits/income
3. EPC assessment arranged by installer
4. Grant offer and project scheduling

## 2. Local Authority Delivery (LAD)

### Overview
LAD allocates funding to local councils for low-income, energy-inefficient homes.

### Bishop's Stortford Status 2025
East Hertfordshire District Council has confirmed **LAD Phase 3 funding** for 2025 targeting properties with EPC E-G.

### Funding Details
- Grants up to **£10,000** covering 100% of eligible measures for owner-occupiers
- Up to 66% funding for landlords (max £5,000)

### How to Apply
- Register interest via council website
- Council arranges assessment and approved contractors
- Windows must be A-rated or better

## 3. Green Homes Grant Successor (GHG+)

Although the original Green Homes Grant closed, a successor scheme launches April 2025.

### Key Points
- Vouchers covering 50% of costs up to **£7,500** per home
- Windows classed as "secondary measures" – you must install a primary insulation or heat pump measure first
- Limited budget – apply early!

## 4. VAT Relief on Energy-Saving Materials

Since April 2022, VAT on energy-saving materials is **0%** until 2027.

### What It Means
- Immediate 5% saving versus pre-2022 rates
- Automatically applied by installers – no forms needed

## 5. Combining Grants & Tax Relief

Smart homeowners can stack savings:
- **ECO4 + 0% VAT**
- **LAD + 0% VAT**
- **GHG+ + 0% VAT** (if primary measure installed)

## Example Savings Calculation
| Window Project | Total Cost | Scheme | Grant | VAT Saving | You Pay |
|----------------|-----------|--------|-------|------------|---------|
| 10 A-rated uPVC windows | £7,500 | ECO4 (50%) | £3,750 | £0 | £3,750 |
| 12 Acoustic double-glazed timber windows | £12,000 | LAD (66%) | £7,920 | £0 | £4,080 |

## Application Tips from Oliver
1. **Get EPC Ready**: Arrange an EPC if you don’t have one – it’s required for all schemes.
2. **Act Early**: Funding pots run out fast.
3. **Use Approved Installers**: Grants only released to certified companies.
4. **Keep Documents**: Save certificates for future property sales.
5. **Plan Holistically**: Combine window upgrades with insulation for biggest savings.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What grants are available for window replacement in 2025?
(Answered in FAQ frontmatter)

### How long does grant approval take?
ECO4 approvals typically take 2-4 weeks; LAD approvals depend on council workload (4-8 weeks). GHG+ voucher decisions target 14 days.

### Can I choose any installer?
No. You must use scheme-approved or TrustMark/FENSA certified companies.

### Are grants taxable income?
No – grants for energy-efficiency improvements are non-taxable.

## Final Thoughts – Don’t Miss Out!

Grant schemes can slash window upgrade costs by up to 70%, but funding is limited and competition is fierce. In my 38 years, I’ve seen schemes open and close quickly.

If your windows are due for replacement, **act now**. Even if you’re unsure of eligibility, start the application process – you might be pleasantly surprised.

**Need help securing your grant?** [Contact us today](/contact) for free eligibility checks and application support.

*About the Author: Oliver Greene has 38 years of experience helping Hertfordshire homeowners access funding for energy-efficient window upgrades.*

Commit message:

Fix duplicate H1 tags in blog posts and implement green underlined links
- Fixed duplicate H1 issue: Changed all blog post content H1 tags to H2
- Fixed duplicate ID issue: Changed first services section to services-overview
- Updated blog link styling: Green color with green underlines and hover effects
- Updated blog images: All 15 blog posts now use professional images from windowsbishopsstortford-blogimages folder
- Enhanced link accessibility: Added underline offset and medium font weight
- Removed prose-green class to prevent style conflicts

src/content/blog/grant-schemes-2025-eligibility-bishops-stortford.md, after:

---
title: "Window Grant Schemes 2025: Are You Eligible? [Bishop's Stortford]"
description: "Discover 2025 window and energy efficiency grant schemes for Bishop's Stortford homeowners. Eligibility, amounts, and application tips from Oliver Greene."
publishDate: "2025-06-08"
author: "Oliver Greene"
heroImage: "/images/windowsbishopsstortford-blogimages/front-cover_compressed-geotagged.webp"
heroImageAlt: "Illustration of grant money and energy-efficient windows for Bishop's Stortford homes in 2025"
tags: ["window grants", "energy grants", "bishops stortford", "2025 schemes", "funding"]
category: "energy-efficiency"
slug: "grant-schemes-2025-eligibility-bishops-stortford"
featured: false
readingTime: 8
schema:
  type: "BlogPosting"
  category: "window services"
faq:
  - question: "What grants are available for window replacement in 2025?"
    answer: "Key 2025 schemes include the Green Homes Grant successor, Energy Company Obligation (ECO4), Local Authority Delivery (LAD) funding, and VAT relief on energy-saving materials. Each scheme has its own eligibility criteria and funding levels."
  - question: "How much can I get from ECO4 for new windows?"
    answer: "ECO4 funding is means-tested and can cover 30-70% of qualifying window upgrade costs. Low-income households may receive up to £5,000 for A-rated double glazing."
  - question: "Do grant schemes cover triple glazing?"
    answer: "Most schemes focus on minimum A-rated double glazing. Some pilot programmes cover triple glazing for properties in high-noise or exposed areas, but funding is limited."
  - question: "Can landlords apply for window grants in Bishop's Stortford?"
    answer: "Yes, but eligibility differs. ECO4 allows landlords to apply if tenants meet income criteria. Local Authority Delivery schemes may also include rental properties meeting EPC requirements."
---

## Window Grant Schemes 2025: Are You Eligible in Bishop's Stortford?

Replacing inefficient windows is one of the best ways to cut energy bills, but it can be a significant investment. The good news? Several 2025 grant schemes can reduce your costs – if you know where to look.

I'm Oliver Greene. After 38 years in the window industry, I've helped many Bishop's Stortford homeowners secure grants to make energy-efficient upgrades more affordable. This guide explains every **2025 grant scheme** relevant to our area, how much you could get, and step-by-step instructions to apply.

**Quick Links:**
- [ECO4 Scheme](#eco4-energy-company-obligation)
- [Local Authority Delivery (LAD)](#local-authority-delivery-lad)
- [Green Homes Grant Successor](#green-homes-grant-successor)
- [Zero-VAT on Energy-Saving Materials](#vat-relief)

## 1. ECO4 Energy Company Obligation

### What is ECO4?
ECO4 is the latest phase of the government-mandated programme requiring energy suppliers to fund home efficiency improvements for low-income and vulnerable households.

### Eligibility Checklist
- Income under £31,000 or receipt of qualifying benefits
- EPC rating of D, E, F or G
- Owner-occupier or private tenant with landlord permission

### How Much Funding?
- 30-70% of window upgrade cost, up to **£5,000** per property
- Higher grants for rural and off-gas homes

### Application Steps
1. Contact an approved ECO installer (we can recommend trusted local partners)
2. Provide proof of benefits/income
3. EPC assessment arranged by installer
4. Grant offer and project scheduling

## 2. Local Authority Delivery (LAD)

### Overview
LAD allocates funding to local councils for low-income, energy-inefficient homes.

### Bishop's Stortford Status 2025
East Hertfordshire District Council has confirmed **LAD Phase 3 funding** for 2025 targeting properties with EPC E-G.

### Funding Details
- Grants up to **£10,000** covering 100% of eligible measures for owner-occupiers
- Up to 66% funding for landlords (max £5,000)

### How to Apply
- Register interest via council website
- Council arranges assessment and approved contractors
- Windows must be A-rated or better

## 3. Green Homes Grant Successor (GHG+)

Although the original Green Homes Grant closed, a successor scheme launches April 2025.

### Key Points
- Vouchers covering 50% of costs up to **£7,500** per home
- Windows classed as "secondary measures" – you must install a primary insulation or heat pump measure first
- Limited budget – apply early!

## 4. VAT Relief on Energy-Saving Materials

Since April 2022, VAT on energy-saving materials is **0%** until 2027.

### What It Means
- Immediate 5% saving versus pre-2022 rates
- Automatically applied by installers – no forms needed

## 5. Combining Grants & Tax Relief

Smart homeowners can stack savings:
- **ECO4 + 0% VAT**
- **LAD + 0% VAT**
- **GHG+ + 0% VAT** (if primary measure installed)

## Example Savings Calculation
| Window Project | Total Cost | Scheme | Grant | VAT Saving | You Pay |
|----------------|-----------|--------|-------|------------|---------|
| 10 A-rated uPVC windows | £7,500 | ECO4 (50%) | £3,750 | £0 | £3,750 |
| 12 Acoustic double-glazed timber windows | £12,000 | LAD (66%) | £7,920 | £0 | £4,080 |

## Application Tips from Oliver
1. **Get EPC Ready**: Arrange an EPC if you don’t have one – it’s required for all schemes.
2. **Act Early**: Funding pots run out fast.
3. **Use Approved Installers**: Grants only released to certified companies.
4. **Keep Documents**: Save certificates for future property sales.
5. **Plan Holistically**: Combine window upgrades with insulation for biggest savings.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### What grants are available for window replacement in 2025?
(Answered in FAQ frontmatter)

### How long does grant approval take?
ECO4 approvals typically take 2-4 weeks; LAD approvals depend on council workload (4-8 weeks). GHG+ voucher decisions target 14 days.

### Can I choose any installer?
No. You must use scheme-approved or TrustMark/FENSA certified companies.

### Are grants taxable income?
No – grants for energy-efficiency improvements are non-taxable.

## Final Thoughts – Don’t Miss Out!

Grant schemes can slash window upgrade costs by up to 70%, but funding is limited and competition is fierce. In my 38 years, I’ve seen schemes open and close quickly.

If your windows are due for replacement, **act now**. Even if you’re unsure of eligibility, start the application process – you might be pleasantly surprised.

**Need help securing your grant?** [Contact us today](/contact) for free eligibility checks and application support.

*About the Author: Oliver Greene has 38 years of experience helping Hertfordshire homeowners access funding for energy-efficient window upgrades.*
